README.md, before:

# asss - Arbitrary Search spiritual successor

Hey there's this ancient program out there called "[arbitrary search][predecessor]",
which is really good for finding text strings in ROMs.

It has a few problems though:

1. It's windows-only
2. It's sloooooooow (you can't play around with different strings without
   brewing a cup of char first)
3. It doesn't let you explore the few bytes surrounding the text you searched
   for (which might make false positives more obvious).

I hope to address all of these problems and maybe see what else I can do with this.

## Algorithms

The algorithm as presented in the initial commit takes 0.11 seconds to find "POK#MON adventure" in Pokémon Ruby.

Note that that text doesn't actually feature in the game, so it's all false positives.

<details>
<summary>Naïve algorithm 1</summary>

This took about 1.37 seconds.

```c
bool found = true;
for (size_t j = 0; j < search_string_len; j++) {
    for (size_t k = j + 1; k < search_string_len; k++) {
        if ((search_string[k] == search_string[j]) != (buffer[i + k] == buffer[i + j])) {
            found = false;
            break;
        }
    }
}
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>Naïve algorithm 2</summary>

This took about 0.92 seconds.

```c
memset(tl, 0, 0x100);
memset(tl_r, 0xFF, 0x200);
bool found = true;
for (size_t j = 0; j < search_string_len; j++) {

    if (tl_r[search_string[j]] == 0xFFFF) {
        tl_r[search_string[j]] = buffer[i + j];
    } else {
        if (tl_r[search_string[j]] != buffer[i + j]) {
            found = false;
            break;
        }
    }
    if (tl[buffer[i + j]] == 0) {
        tl[buffer[i + j]] = search_string[j];
    } else {
        if (tl[buffer[i + j]] != search_string[j]) {
            found = false;
            break;
        }
    }
}
```

</details>


[predecessor]: http://www.thealmightyguru.com/Games/Hacking/Hacking-Programs.html

Commit message:

Add Arbitrary Search speed comparison to readme

README.md, after:

# asss - Arbitrary Search spiritual successor

Hey there's this ancient program out there called "[arbitrary search][predecessor]",
which is really good for finding text strings in ROMs.

It has a few problems though:

1. It's windows-only
2. It's sloooooooow (you can't play around with different strings without
   brewing a cup of char first)
3. It doesn't let you explore the few bytes surrounding the text you searched
   for (which might make false positives more obvious).

I hope to address all of these problems and maybe see what else I can do with this.

## Algorithms

The algorithm as presented in the initial commit takes 0.11 seconds to find "POK#MON adventure" in Pokémon Ruby.

Note that that text doesn't actually feature in the game, so it's all false positives.

<details>
<summary>Naïve algorithm 1</summary>

This took about 1.37 seconds.

```c
bool found = true;
for (size_t j = 0; j < search_string_len; j++) {
    for (size_t k = j + 1; k < search_string_len; k++) {
        if ((search_string[k] == search_string[j]) != (buffer[i + k] == buffer[i + j])) {
            found = false;
            break;
        }
    }
}
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>Naïve algorithm 2</summary>

This took about 0.92 seconds.

```c
memset(tl, 0, 0x100);
memset(tl_r, 0xFF, 0x200);
bool found = true;
for (size_t j = 0; j < search_string_len; j++) {

    if (tl_r[search_string[j]] == 0xFFFF) {
        tl_r[search_string[j]] = buffer[i + j];
    } else {
        if (tl_r[search_string[j]] != buffer[i + j]) {
            found = false;
            break;
        }
    }
    if (tl[buffer[i + j]] == 0) {
        tl[buffer[i + j]] = search_string[j];
    } else {
        if (tl[buffer[i + j]] != search_string[j]) {
            found = false;
            break;
        }
    }
}
```

</details>

For comparison, the original Arbitrary Search takes roughly 57 seconds to
complete the same operation on my machine, which is what motivated this
project. Perhaps some of this is WINE overhead, but I don't remember it being
any faster back in my Windows days. It is also worth noting that the algorithm
used by the original Arbitrary Search will exlcude any results which contain
the 0xFF byte.


[predecessor]: http://www.thealmightyguru.com/Games/Hacking/Hacking-Programs.html
